.Dd August 12, 2013
.Dt CHRC 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm chrc
.Nd modify tags for existing dotfiles
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm chrc
.Op Fl vqoOU
.Op Fl t Ar TAG
.Op Fl T Ar NEW-TAG
.Op Fl d Ar DIR
.Op Fl D Ar NEW-DIR
.Ar FILES ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Change the tag, host-specificity, or dotfiles directory for an existing
list of
.Va FILES
already in a dotfiles directory.
.
It supports two sets of flags: one for finding the files, and another set
for moving them.
.
.Ss Finding a dotfile
.Bl -tag
.It Fl d Ar DIR
find dotfiles under
.Va DIR
.It Fl o
find dotfiles in the host-specific directory. This cannot be specified
if
.Fl t
is also specified.
.It Fl t Ar TAG
find dotfiles under
.Va TAG .
This cannot be specified if
.Fl o
is also specified.
.El
.Ss Relocating a dotfile
.Bl -tag
.It Fl O
move the dotfiles into the host-specific directory. Note that
.Fl oO
may be useful for moving a dotfile between two dotfile directories.
.It Fl U
strip the dotfile of all tags
.It Fl T Ar NEW-TAG
assign a new tag to the dotfile
.It Fl D Ar NEW-DIR
move the dotfile into
.Va NEW-DIR .
This may require the use of
.Fl oO
or
.Fl tT .
.El
.Ss Common flags
.Bl -tag
.It Fl q
decrease verbosity
.It Fl v
increase verbosity. This can be repeated for extra verbosity.
.Sh FILES
.Pa ~/.dotfiles
.Pa ~/.rcrc
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Dl chrc -O rcrc
.Dl chrc -D work-dotfiles tigrc
.Dl chrc -oO -d temp-dotfiles -D public-dotfiles gitconfig
.Dl chrc -U pythonrc bpython
.Dl chrc -t java -T scala -D community-dotfiles sbt
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lsrc 1 ,
.Xr mkrc 1 ,
.Xr rcdn 1 ,
.Xr rcup 1 ,
.Xr rcrc 5 ,
.Xr rcm 7
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "Mike Burns" Aq mike@mike-burns.com
