.Dd February 7, 2014
.Dt LSRC 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm lsrc
.Nd show dotfiles files managed by rcm
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm lsrc
.Op Fl FhqVv
.Op Fl B Ar hostname
.Op Fl d Ar dir
.Op Fl I Ar excl_pat
.Op Fl S Ar excl_pat
.Op Fl s Ar excl_pat
.Op Fl t Ar tag
.Op Fl x Ar excl_pat
.Op files ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This program lists all configuration files, both the sources in the
dotfiles directories and the destinations in your home directory.
.
See
.Xr rcup 1 ,
the
.Sx DIRECTORY LAYOUT
section, for details on the directory layout.
.
It supports these options:
.
.Bl -tag -width "-I excl_pat"
.It Fl B Ar HOSTNAME
treat
.Pa host-HOSTNAME
as the host-specific directory instead of computing it based on the
computer's hostname
.It Fl d Ar DIR
list dotfiles from the DIR. This can be specified multiple times.
.
.It Fl F
show symbols next to each file indicating status information. Supported
symbols are
.Li @
which indicates that the file is a symlink,
.Li $
which indicates it's a symlinked directory, and
.Li X
to indicate that the file is a copy. More details on copied files and
symlinked directories can be found in
.Xr rcrc 5
under the documentation on
.Va COPY_ALWAYS
and
.Va SYMLINK_DIRS ,
respectively.
.
.It Fl h
show usage instructions.
.
.It Fl I Ar excl_pat
include the files that match the given pattern. This is applied after
any
.Fl x
options. It uses the same pattern language as
.Fl x ;
more details are in the
.Sx EXCLUDE PATTERN
section. Note that you may have to quote the exclude pattern so the
shell does not evaluate the glob.
.
.It Fl S Ar excl_pat
symlink the directories that match the given pattern. See
.Sx EXCLUDE PATTERN
for more details. This option can be repeated. You may need to quote the
pattern to prevent the shell from swallowing the glob.
.
.It Fl s Ar excl_pat
if a directory matches the given pattern, recur inside of it instead of
symlinking. See
.Sx EXCLUDE PATTERN
for more details. This is the opposite of the
.Fl S
option, and can be used to undo it or the
.Va SYMLINK_DIRS
setting in your
.Xr rcrc 5
configuration. It can be repeated, and the pattern may need to be quoted to
protect it from your shell.
.
.It Fl t Ar TAG
list dotfiles according to TAG
.
.It Fl V
show the version number.
.
.It Fl v
increase verbosity. This can be repeated for extra verbosity.
.
.It Fl q
decrease verbosity
.
.It Fl x Ar excl_pat
exclude the files that match the given pattern. See
.Sx EXCLUDE PATTERN
for more details. This option can be repeated. Quote the pattern if it
contains a valid shell glob.
.
.It Ar files ...
only list the specified file(s)
.El
.Sh EXCLUDE PATTERN
The exclude pattern specifies a colon-separated pair of dotfiles
directory and file glob. The dotfiles directory is optional and, if
omitted, defaults to
.Li * ,
which is a special token that matches any dotfiles directory. The file
glob is relative to the dotfiles directory, ignoring meta directories. A
colon combines them.
.
.Pp
For example, to ignore all emacs-related items from the
.Pa thoughtbot-dotfiles
directory, use the exclude pattern:
.Pp
.Dl thoughtbot-dotfiles:*emacs*
.Pp
To ignore any
.Pa bash_profile
file, use the pattern:
.Pp
.Dl *:bash_profile
.Pp
Or more simply:
.Pp
.Dl bash_profile
.Pp
.
Since exclude patterns are often valid shell globs, be sure to quote
them. See the caveats noted in
.Sx BUGS
when using an exclude pattern.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev RCRC"
.It Ev RCRC
User configuration file. Defaults to
.Pa ~/.rcrc .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Pa ~/.dotfiles
.Pa ~/.rcrc
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mkrc 1 ,
.Xr rcdn 1 ,
.Xr rcup 1 ,
.Xr rcrc 5 ,
.Xr rcm 7
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "Mike Burns" Aq mike@mike-burns.com
.Sh BUGS
There are a few bugs around shell globs. Anything involving an exclude
pattern is unpredictable, so use
.Fl v
when dealing with patterns. Specifically, globs may expand at any
time and remain expanded for the duration of the run, which means they
cannot be applied more than once. In addition, globs involving
relative directory names do not work.
