.Dd April 13, 2020
.Dt MKRC 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mkrc
.Nd bless files into a dotfiles managed by rcm
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm mkrc
.Op Fl ChoqSsVvUukK
.Op Fl t Ar tag
.Op Fl d Ar dir
.Op Fl B Ar hostname
.Ar files ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This program adds files to your dotfiles directory then update them
back into your home directory. It can install files under a tag or
install them in a different source directory. Remember to first create
standard rc files, then use
.Nm
on them.
.
.Pp
.
It supports these options:
.
.Bl -tag -width "-d DIR"
.It Fl B Ar HOSTNAME
use the supplied hostname instead of computing one. Implies
.Fl o .
.It Fl C
copy instead of symlinking when installing the rc file back into your
home directory. This will prevent future updates in the dotfiles directory for
added element, and its contents if it is a directory.
.It Fl d Ar DIR
install dotfiles under the specified directory. Use only once to override
DOTFILES_DIRS value from RCRC and the absolute default value.
.It Fl h
show usage instructions.
.It Fl o
install dotfiles into the host-specific directory.
.It Fl q
decrease verbosity.
.It Fl S
treat the specified rc files as files to be symlinked, even if they are
directories.
.It Fl s
if the rc file is a file, symlink it; otherwise, make a directory
structure as described in
.Xr rcup 1 
in the section 
.Sx ALGORITHM .
This is the default.
.It Fl t Ar TAG
install dotfiles according to tag
.It Fl U
the specified files or directories are to be installed without a leading
dot.
.It Fl u
the specified files or directories are to be installed with a leading dot. This
is the default.
.It Fl v
increase verbosity. This can be repeated for extra verbosity.
.It Fl V
show the version number.
.It Fl k
pass -k to rcup when installing the made rc file. This option enables pre- and
post-hooks, which is the default, making this effectively a no-op. See the
.Sx ALGORITHM
section in
.Xr rcup 1 .
.It Fl K
pass -K to rcup when installing the made rc file. This option prevents pre- and
post-up hooks from running as part of creating the rc file. See the
.Sx ALGORITHM
section in
.Xr rcup 1 .
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev RCRC"
.It Ev RCRC
User configuration file. Defaults to
.Pa ${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/rcm/rcrc .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Pp
.Pa ${XDG_DATA_HOME}/rcm/dotfiles
or
.Pa ~/.dotfiles
.Pp
.Pa ${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/rcm/rcrc
or
.Pa ~/.rcrc
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Dl mkrc ~/.vimrc
.Dl mkrc -t zsh -d company-dotfiles ~/.zshrc ~/.zlogin
.Dl mkrc -o ~/.rcrc
.Dl mkrc -C .ssh
.Dl mkrc -S .zpretzo
.Dl mkrc -U bin
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lsrc 1 ,
.Xr rcdn 1 ,
.Xr rcup 1 ,
.Xr rcrc 5 ,
.Xr rcm 7
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
is maintained by
.An "Mike Burns" Aq Mt mburns@thoughtbot.com
and
.Lk http://thoughtbot.com thoughtbot
