.Dd July 28, 2013
.Dt RCRC 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rcrc
.Nd configuration for rcm
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Sm off
.Ns Ev X
.Ns =
.Ns Qo
.Va a\ \&
.Va b\ \&
.Va c
.Qc
.Sm on
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The rcm dotfile manager can be configured using a
.Pa .rcrc
file in your home directory. This location can be changed by setting the
.Pa RCRC
environment variable. The format is POSIX shell. It is sourced in by the
.Xr lsrc 1 ,
.Xr mkrc 1 ,
.Xr rcdn 1 ,
and
.Xr rcup 1
programs.
.Pp
It supports these variables:
.Bl -tag -width "DOTFILES_DIRS"
.It Va COPY_ALWAYS
always copy files that match the listed globs, never symlink them.
.
.It Va DOTFILES_DIRS
the source directories for dotfiles. The first in the list is the
source to which dotfiles created using
.Xr mkrc 1
are installed. The default value is
.Pa ~/.dotfiles
.
.It Va EXCLUDES
a space-separated list of exclude patterns. Exclude patterns are
explained in detail in
.Xr lsrc 1
under the section
.Sx EXCLUDE PATTERN .
.
.It Va HOSTNAME
the hostname for this computer. This is normally computed using the
.Xr hostname 1
command, but this command is non-standard and can prove unreliable. The
.Va HOSTNAME
variable forces a known hostname.
.It Va TAGS
the default tags.
.
.It Va SYMLINK_DIRS
a space-separated list of patterns. Directories matching a pattern are
symlinked instead of descended. Patterns are explained in detail in
.Xr lsrc 1
under the section
.Sx EXCLUDE PATTERN .
.
.It Va UNDOTTED
a space separated list of patterns. Files matching this pattern
will be symlinked without a leading dot. If a file is also in
.Va SYMLINK_DIRS ,
then the directory will be symlinked without a leading dot.
Patterns are explained in detail in
.Xr lsrc 1
under the section
.Sx EXCLUDE PATTERN .
.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Pp
.Pa ${XDG_CONFIG_HOME}/rcm/rcrc
or
.Pa ~/.rcrc
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Dl COPY_ALWAYS="ssh/id_* weechat/* netrc"
.Dl COPY_ALWAYS="*"
.Dl DOTFILES_DIRS="/home/mike/.dotfiles /usr/share/dotfiles"
.Dl EXCLUDES="irbrc *:*emacs* dotfiles:python*"
.Dl HOSTNAME="eggplant"
.Dl TAGS="freebsd development email git laptop gmail notmuch"
.Dl SYMLINK_DIRS="zprezto texmf"
.Dl UNDOTTED="texmf"
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lsrc 1 ,
.Xr mkrc 1 ,
.Xr rcdn 1 ,
.Xr rcup 1 ,
.Xr rcm 7
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
is maintained by
.An "Mike Burns" Aq Mt mburns@thoughtbot.com
and
.Lk http://thoughtbot.com thoughtbot
.Sh BUGS
We only expand tilde inside
.Va DOTFILES_DIRS
and not inside any patterns. For more notes on the caution you should
exercise around patterns, see the BUGS section of
.Xr lsrc 1 .
