.Dd July 28, 2013
.Dt RCUP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm rcup
.Nd update and install dotfiles managed by rcm
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm rcup
.Op Fl CfhiKkqVv
.Op Fl B Ar hostname
.Op Fl d Ar dir
.Op Fl I Ar excl_pat
.Op Fl S Ar excl_pat
.Op Fl s Ar excl_pat
.Op Fl t Ar tag
.Op Fl x Ar excl_pat
.Op Ar files ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
This is a program to update and install personal dotfiles. These
dotfiles are managed in a separate directory. Use
.Nm rcup
to install files from your dotfiles directories or from host- or
tag-specific directories within.
.Pp
See
.Sx DIRECTORY LAYOUT
for details on the directory layout.
.Pp
It supports these options:
.Bl -tag -width "-x EXCL_PAT"
.It Fl B Ar HOSTNAME
treat
.Pa host-HOSTNAME
as the host-specific directory instead of computing it
.It Fl C
copy the files instead of symlinking them
.It Fl d Ar DIR
install dotfiles from the
.Ar DIR .
This can be specified multiple times.
.It Fl f
if the rc file already exists in your home directory but does not match
the file in your dotfiles directory, remove the rc file then create the
symlink
.It Fl h
show usage instructions.
.It Fl I Ar EXCL_PAT
install rc files that match
.Ar EXCL_PAT
despite being excluded by the
.Fl x
flag or a setting in
.Xr rcrc 5 .
This can be repeated with additional patterns. See
.Xr lsrc 1 ,
.Sx EXCLUDE PATTERN ,
for more details.
.It Fl i
if the rc file already exists in your home directory but does not match
the file in your dotfiles directory, prompt for how to handle it. This
is the default
.It Fl K
skip pre- and post-hooks
.It Fl k
run pre- and post-hooks (see
.Sx DIRECTORY LAYOUT
for more details on hooks). This is the default.
.It Fl S Ar EXCL_PAT
any rc file that matches
.Ar EXCL_PAT
is installed as if it were a file (using a symlink) instead of as if it
were a directory (by making a directory). This option can be repeated.
.It Fl s Ar EXCL_PAT
any file that matches
.Ar EXCL_PAT
is installed as normal, in accordance with the
.Sx ALGORITHM
section below. This is the opposite of
.Fl S .
This option can be repeated.
.It Fl t Ar TAG
install dotfiles according to
.Ar TAG
.It Fl q
decrease verbosity
.It Fl V
show the version number.
.It Fl v
increase verbosity. This can be repeated for extra verbosity.
.It Fl x Ar EXCL_PAT
do not install rc files that match
.Ar EXCL_PAT .
This can be repeated with additional patterns. See
.Xr lsrc 1 ,
.Sx EXCLUDE PATTERN ,
for more details.
.It Ar files
only install the specified file(s)
.El
.Sh DIRECTORY LAYOUT
Any non-dot non-meta file or directory under your dotfiles directory will be
installed as a dotfile. For example,
.Pa .dotfiles/zshrc
will be installed into
.Pa ~/.zshrc
\&.
.Pp
Files are installed as symlinks. Directories are installed by making
directories. The
.Fl C
flag causes files to be installed as copies instead of symlinks. The
.Va COPY_ALWAYS
option in
.Xr rcrc 5
can be used to list files that must only be copied.
.Pp
Three meta files are supported: host-specific files, tagged files,
hooks.
.Pp
Host-specific files go in a directory named for the host, prefixed with
.Pa host- .
For example,
.Pa .dotfiles/host-scarlett
contains files specific to the computer with hostname
.Pa scarlett
, and these files will only be installed on the computer with hostname
.Pa scarlett .
.Pp
Tagged files go in a directory named for the tag, prefixed with
.Li tag- .
Therefore, files under
.Pa .dotfiles/tag-git
are only installed when installing using the
.Li git
tag.
.Pp
Hooks go in a directory named
.Pa hooks .
Two hooks are supported by
.Nm rcup :
pre-up and post-up. These go in files or directories with predictable filenames:
.Pa .dotfiles/hooks/pre-up
and
.Pa .dotfiles/hooks/post-up ,
or
.Pa .dotfiles/hooks/pre-up/*
and
.Pa .dotfiles/hooks/post-up/* .
These files must be executable. They are run every time
.Nm
is run, and therefore must be idempotent.
.Sh ALGORITHM
It is instructive to understand the process
.Nm rcup
uses when synchronizing your rc files:
.Bl -enum
.It
The pre-up hook is run.
.
.It
All non-host, non-tag files without a dot prefix are symlinked to the
dotted filename in your home directory. So,
.Pa .dotfiles/tigrc
is
symlinked to
.Pa ~/.tigrc .
.
.It
All non-host, non-tag directories have their structure copied to your
home directory, then a non-dotted symlink is created within.  So for
example,
.Pa .dotfiles/vim/autoload/haskell.vim
causes the
.Pa ~/.vim/autoload
directory to be created, then
.Pa haskell.vim
is symlinked within.
.
.It
Steps (1) and (2) are applied to host-specific files. These are files
under a directory named
.Sm off
.Pa host- Va $HOSTNAME .
.Sm on
.
.It
Steps (1) and (2) are applied to tag-specific files. These are files
under directories named
.Sm off
.Pa tag- Va $TAG_NAME ,
.Sm on
where
.Va $TAG_NAME
is the name of each specified tag in turn, taken from the command line
or from
.Xr rcrc 5 .
.
.It
The post-up hook is run.
.El
.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width ".Ev RCRC"
.It Ev RCRC
User configuration file. Defaults to
.Pa ~/.rcrc .
.El
.Sh FILES
.Pa ~/.dotfiles
.Pa ~/.rcrc
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr lsrc 1 ,
.Xr mkrc 1 ,
.Xr rcdn 1 ,
.Xr rcrc 5 ,
.Xr rcm 7
.Sh AUTHORS
.An "Mike Burns" Aq mike@mike-burns.com
