.TH rcup "1" "June 2013" "rcm"

.SH NAME
rcup \- update and install dotfiles

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rcup [-v] [-q] [-t \fItag\fR] [-d \fIdir\fR] [\fIfiles...\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION

This is a program to update and install personal dotfiles. These
dotfiles are managed in a separate directory. Use \fBrcup\fR to install
files from your dotfiles directories or from host- or tag-specific
directories within.

See \fBDIRECTORY LAYOUT\fR for details on the directory layout.

It supports these options:

.TP
\fB-v\fR
increase verbosity. This can be repeated for extra verbosity.

.TP
\fB-q\fR
decrease verbosity

.TP
\fB-t\fR \fITAG\fR
install dotfiles according to TAG

.TP
\fB-d\fR \fIDIR\fR
install dotfiles from the DIR. This can be specified multiple times.

.TP
\fIfiles...\fR
only install the specified file(s)

.SH DIRECTORY LAYOUT

Any non-dot non-meta file or directory under your dotfiles directory will be
installed as a dotfile. For example, \fI.dotfiles/zshrc\fR will be
installed into \fI~/.zshrc\fR\|.

Files are installed as symlinks. Directories are installed by making
directories.

Two meta files are supported: host-specific files and tagged files.

Host-specific files go in a directory named for the host, prefixed with
\fIhost-\fR\|. For example, \fI.dotfiles/host-scarlett\fR contains files
specific to the computer with hostname \fIscarlett\fR\|, and these files
will only be installed on the computer with hostname \fIscarlett\fR\|.

Tagged files go in a directory named for the tag, prefixed with
\fItag-\fR\|. Files under \fI.dotfiles/tag-git\fR are only installed
when installing using the \fIgit\fR tag.

.SH AUTHOR

Written by Mike Burns.

.SH FILES
.I ~/.dotfiles
.I ~/.rcrc

.SH SEE ALSO

\&\fIrcrc\fR\|(5), \fImkrc\fR\|(1), \fIlsrc\fR\|(1)
